Up till now, we’ve been focusing on UNIX programming APIs, and how to interact with various aspects of the system. 
Part of this discussion has been how various programs can be orchestrated to cooperate. 
Pipelines enable larger functionalities to be composed out of multiple programs in which the output of one goes to the input of the next. 
System servers provide services to clients that use IPC to harness their functionality. 
This enables servers that control system resources (like wifi) to let many clients have limited and controlled access to those resources.

The next few chapters dive under the hood of processes. We’ll investigate

how programs are represented and how to understand their format,
how programs are organized and can share code, and
how they interact with the system.
How do we think about our system’s programs? We’re used to writing our own programs, and like to think of the code we write being relatively self-contained. 
In contrast, quite a bit of system programming is about providing functionality that can be used by any program on the system. 
What if you wanted to implement the world’s best key-value store, and wanted to enable anyone to use your implementation!?

We think of these shared functionalities as falling into one of two categories:

Libraries that represent bodies of code that can be pull into our applications. 
You’re already quite used to these! libc is the core library that provides all of the functions that we use when we include many of the 
headers in the class, for example, #include <stdlib.h>, #include <stdio.h>, or #include <string.h>.
Services which track different aspects of the system, and provide information to our programs. 
They tend to be programs that are always running on your system, and your programs can communicate with them to harness their functionality. 
These include services that receive print requests, that service ssh sessions, that provide your vpn connection, and that display your graphical user interface, 
and many other functions. We’ve already seen many of the IPC and communication foundations that make these tick.
